.TH MAC-GUEST-AGENT 8 "March 2026" "mac-guest-agent 2.1.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
mac-guest-agent \- QEMU Guest Agent for macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mac-guest-agent
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mac-guest-agent
is a QEMU Guest Agent (QGA) implementation for macOS virtual machines. It
enables hypervisors (Proxmox VE, libvirt, QEMU) to manage macOS guests through
the standard QGA protocol over a serial port.
.PP
The agent communicates via an ISA serial port (16550 UART) that macOS supports
natively on all versions from Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger through current macOS. No
custom kernel extensions or SIP modifications are required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-daemonize
Run as a daemon. Log output goes to the log file instead of stderr.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Specify the serial device path. Default: auto-detect from known paths
including /dev/cu.serial1 (ISA) and /dev/cu.org.qemu.guest_agent.0 (VirtIO).
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-logfile " " \fIPATH\fR
Log file path. Default: /var/log/mac-guest-agent.log when daemonized.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-pidfile " " \fIPATH\fR
PID file path.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable debug logging.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-block\-rpcs " " \fILIST\fR
Comma-separated list of commands to disable. Example:
.B \-b guest-exec,guest-set-user-password
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-allow\-rpcs " " \fILIST\fR
Comma-separated list of commands to allow. All others are disabled.
Takes precedence over block-rpcs.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Configuration file path. Default: /etc/qemu/qemu-ga.conf
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-dump\-conf
Print effective configuration and exit.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test
Test mode. Uses stdin/stdout instead of a serial device. Does not require
QEMU or root privileges.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-install
Install as a macOS LaunchDaemon system service.
.TP
.B \-\-uninstall
Remove the LaunchDaemon service and binary.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The agent reads an optional configuration file at /etc/qemu/qemu-ga.conf
(compatible with the Linux qemu-ga format):
.PP
.RS
.nf
[general]
daemonize = 0
path = /dev/cu.serial1
logfile = /var/log/mac-guest-agent.log
verbose = 0
block-rpcs = guest-exec,guest-set-user-password
.fi
.RE
.SH HYPERVISOR SETUP
On Proxmox VE, set the guest agent to ISA serial mode:
.PP
.RS
.B qm set <vmid> --agent enabled=1,type=isa
.RE
.PP
Then stop and start the VM (QEMU args change requires a full restart).
On macOS 11.0 (Big Sur) and later, the default virtio-serial mode also
works via Apple's built-in VirtIO driver.
.SH SUPPORTED COMMANDS
The agent supports 44 standard QGA commands including guest-ping,
guest-get-osinfo, guest-get-host-name, guest-shutdown,
guest-network-get-interfaces, guest-file-open/read/write,
guest-exec, and guest-ssh-get/add/remove-authorized-keys.
.PP
See
.B mac-guest-agent --test
for interactive testing of all commands.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/mac-guest-agent
Agent binary.
.TP
.I /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.macos.guest-agent.plist
LaunchDaemon configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/qemu/qemu-ga.conf
Optional configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/log/mac-guest-agent.log
Log file.
.TP
.I /etc/newsyslog.d/mac-guest-agent.conf
Log rotation configuration.
.SH SECURITY
The agent runs as root and accepts commands from the hypervisor via the
serial port. The security model assumes the hypervisor is trusted. Sensitive
commands (guest-exec, guest-set-user-password, guest-ssh-*) can be
disabled via block-rpcs or allow-rpcs.
.PP
Passwords are passed to dscl via stdin, not on the command line.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
Error (device not found, permission denied, etc).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qemu-ga (8),
.BR launchctl (1),
.BR dscl (1)
.SH AUTHORS
mac-guest-agent contributors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
